$Id$

- This is the 1st release of the 2.0 version of the
Noaaport Broadcast System Processor (nbsp). Packages, sources and
documentation are available from

    http://www.noaaport.net

Packages for other operating systems or distributions not found there
can be created upon request.

New features in 1.8.r2 -

1) The dafilter has an archive mode for long term archival of the data,
   in addition to, or instead of, the usual mode. In that mode, the data
   is saved in the directory "/var/noaaport/data/archive" and it is not
   pruned by the periodic cleanup scripts.

New features in 1.8 -

1) The Weatherscope extension is now included in the distribution so that
   the WS program is supported ``out of the box''.
   (see weatherscope.README)
2) Two new filters (uafilter, wsfilter) have been added to expand the support
   for Weatherscope. The uafilter converts the upperair data to the mdf format
   used by Weatherscope. The wsfilter converts model grib forecast data.
   The program can now display hundreds of parameters from different models,
   grids, levels and forecast time combinations.
   (see weatherscope.README)
3) New scheduler to support a schedule file per filter (used in the gribfilter
   to create the plots via tclgrads and in the wsfilter to create the WS
   data files from the forecast models).
4) Many refinements to the memory-based-spool system for master/slave
   configuration without a disk-based spool.
   (see mspoolbdb.README and master-setup.README).

Changes -

- Revised nbspgribplot and scripts to use tclgrads.
- A local copy of tclgrads is included with nbsp (gribfilter, wsfilter)
- A local copy of tclupperair is included with nbsp (uafilter)
- Several functions in the filterlib are being converted
  to packages (nbsputil, errx).
- New packages for the per-filter scheduler (mscheduler, hscheduler, scheduler)
- A per-filter scheduler (nbspscheduler)
  (used by the wsfilter and the gribfilter).
  nbspexec to execute all the filters schedulers jobs in the background in an
  independent environment.
- New convention for grib file names. This caused revision of
  all the auxiliary grib scripts (plot, ctl files, gribsh).
- Revised the syntax of the gribfilter schedule file
  (now called gribfilter-schedule.rc).
- Changed all matchstop to match in the pipe.m4 decoders rule
  in the dafilter (in analolgy with the gpfilter).
- Added optional daily and hourly archives in metarfilter
  (to add support for Weatherscope). Enabled by default.
- Added uafilter and wsfilter to support Weatherscope.
  Revised the Weatherscope extension
  Added configuration files for the model forecasts data (via m4)
- Weatherscope tcl files included as an extension.
- Separate package for the WS client configuration files also included
  in the doc directory.

Nbsp includes the following features:

o nbsp can work in "master" or "slave" mode. In master mode it can
  accept connections from emwin (byteblaster) clients or other nbsp processes
  running on other hosts (in the same or in a remote network).
  A filter (netfilter) controls what hosts get what products by
  means of fully configurable allow/deny policy rules.
  More details in the netfilter.README and slave-setup.README files.
  
o In slave mode and get its feed either
  from a master nbsp running on a different computer in the network,
  or through an nntp (inn) feed.

o In master-slave configurations, the master can be configured to
  use a spool file system that resides entirely in memory
  (using the Berkely DB library). (seer mspoolbdb.README).

o A gateway interface has been implemented to distribute the files by
  an NNTP server such as inn.

o The text files are also available by RSS feeds that are accessible
  through the built-in web server.

o A gateway has been implemented to insert the files in an LDM product
  for further processing and/or distribution by ldm.

o There is a mechanism (the "panfilter") for sending PAN messages, that is,
  notifying another computer or set of computers when particular product
  files have been received.

o It stores all the files it receives, from all noaaport channels
  (in a user-defined directory). The names of the files saved
  in the spool directory includes a time-stamp.

o A complete inventory is kept of every file received, each minute,
  during the last 24 hour period, as well as each file missed and each file
  retransmitted during the same period. A fairly complete set of statistics
  is produced from the inventory and they are made readily available
  by the built-in web server for easy vieweing. A graphical summary
  of the statistics is also produced in the web interface.
  The inventory files (and the raw data files themselves) for the
  are accessible from web server menu, and they can be downloaded by
  http with any tool such as wget or curl from the corresponding url.
  (See the panfilter.rc-ex file in the distribution for further details.)

o The text files and satellite images are decoded without the
  use of the gempak or any other external program, so that they 
  can be stored in any publicly accesible location and viewed
  with standard tools including a web browser.

o nbsp can generate all the radar images.
  For this, it requires GemPak to be installed since it uses some of
  the maps and tools of that package.

o The creation of the radar and satellite images use a template-based
  system that is fully scriptable and customizable, and
  it can create loop animation sequences of the images.

o It can store the files in a GemPak-compatible format
  and in a GemPak-style directory tree (with the root of the directory
  being configurable). Thus, the files can be manipulated
  by the tools and decoders, and also can be directly loaded into
  the GemPak GUI viewers. A companion package "gpak" is
  available to easy the installation and configuration of Gempak.

o The files can be stored in a format that can be directly
  imported by Digital Atmosphere and IDV. This includes
  upperair, surface and other text data files, as well
  as grib files.

o A directory listing file "dir.list", in the format specified
  in the so-called ONDAS draft
  (http://nexrad.allisonhouse.com/support/developers/ondas.txt),
  is maintained in each radar site subdirectory of the digatmos data directory.

o It has a powerful mechanisms for processing the files received.
  The ``post-processors'' can be written in any language.
  This mechanism can also be used for implementing a complete
  notification system.

o The rstfilter has a facility for executing ``post rules'' after
  the files have beeen processed and the satellite and radar images
  have been created and saved. Among other things, this can be used to
  move, copy or transfer the final data files or images
  to a final local or remote destination.

o The ``dafilter'' can save the radar data files such that they
  can be loadad by the NCDC ``Weather Climate Tool'',
  [http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/oa/wct] (see da-wct.README).

o Full support for Weatherscope
  [http://climate.ok.gov/software] (See weatherscope.README)

o The dafilter, rstfilter, gribfilter and gpfilter support a
  ``work-crew'' configuration option for parallel processing.

o The program uses a configuration file which allows to control
  all essential aspects: which files are stored, which network clients
  can connect, which files are redsitributed, various working directories, 
  and many other details.
 
  All efforts have been made to make it free of artificial limitations, 
  so anywhere where there could be a choice, it has been made
  a configurable option. The configuration file uses the tcl language, 
  which makes it very flexible and powerful. But the program
  runs "out of the box" without any special setting (in fact
  even without the configuration file) with the built-in defaults. 

o nbsp can run as an unpriviledged user and group, which  can be specified
  in the configuration file.

o The rpm version of the package installs the startup
  script via chkconfig in the standard /etc/rc?.d locations.

o It has a built-in web server, designed to display the various
  statistics and variables that nbsp keeps to report its internal state.
  It can also serve any kind of files in the usual way. The server is
  built on top of the tclhttpd library. The server listens on port 8015.
  From the same host it can be accessed as

	http://localhost:8015,

  and from another machine

	http://<yournbspmachine>:8015

  It can be disabled by editing the nbspd.conf file, and some options
  specific to the web server can be set in the httpd.conf file.

o Text files identified as administrative or urgent are tagged
  as such and made immediately available for display through the
  built-in web server.

o A subset of the grib data files are processed and saved in the "digatmos"
  data directory in a way that can be imported by both Digital Atmosphere
  and IDV (assuming that the data directory is exported, for example
  via samba). Further notes about using these programs are given
  in the notes in

	da-idv-grib.README

o There is a separate filter to specifically process the grib
  files, using GrADS. The ``gribfilter" will create the control
  and index files used by GrADS, and it will run a set of scripts
  to produce graphs involving the data at periodic intervals.
  The image files are accessible (as well as the rest of the
  grib-related files) from the buitl-in web interface. A web browser is
  all the is required to view them. New scripts can be added, the
  default ones can be edited and the running time and other options
  are user-configurable. Further notes are in the file

	grads-grib.README

  There are several Tk "client" applications that serve as front-ends
  to GrADS to work with the grib data files. Further details are in the

	gribsh.README

o A facility exists for transfering or uploading to remote sites
  the grib model plots created by the gribfilter using GrADS.

o Metar data files are processed to produce text reports, which
  are readily accessible from the web interface of the built-in
  web server. A facility is provided to define groups of stations
  ("collectives") as a set with a unique name to track the observations
  from that group as one unit. The Metar decoding library was
  written from scratch purely in Tcl. The Metar reports display
  the location (lat, lon, city) of the observation station.

  There is direct support for the MetarWeather program for Windows.
  The data from each station or collective is summarized in a directory
  which can be exported via samba and the data files are immediately
  accessible to the MetarWeather program. 

  The metar observations data is displayed in graphical form
  in the web interface. Plots are generated for the temperature,
  dew point, relative humidity, pressure and wind speed for any
  station. The Metar plots use the gd library via gnuplot.

o A separate filter (trackfilter) specifically for tracking hurricanes.
  The ``trackfilter'' extracts the hurricane data
  from NHC bulletins, saves the data in a text file and creates
  tracking plots of the corresponding hurricane. The data is saved in
  an easy to read format that can be used with other programs if desired.

o The radar data files that are saved in the "digatmos" data directory
  can be written in uncompressed form, and in addition the ccb and/or
  the wmo header can be removed. This is enabled by a configuration option
  in the dafilter.conf file.

o GRLevel3, Digital Atmosphere, Weatherscope and MetarWeather
  are supported "out of the box". Further details are in the files

	da-grlevel.README
	metarweather.README
	weatherscope.README

o There is a ploting module for creating graphs of certain data, such as
  the data from metar observations and the internal statistics data that
  is maintained by nbspd. It is used in the web interface. Further details
  are in the file

	metarplot.README

- 
Jose F Nieves <nieves@ltp.upr.clu.edu>
Sun Mar  8 21:38:53 AST 2009
